#Final Report on International News -- Thallium poisoning case of Zhu Ling

 <p>Zhu Ling had been hospitalized in Beijing Tongren Hospital over a month when experienced stomachache, accompanied by pains of waist, extremities(limbs) and joints in December of 1994. At that time, causes of her symptoms were not confirmed (as the toxicant dose was small and it’s not clear either whether she’s been poisoned by someone else). Zhu Ling left the hospital and return back to school with all her hair losing. In February of 1995, Zhu Ling suffered diseases out of unknown causes again in one week back to school, this time accompanied by tremendous legs pains, numb hands and extensive hair losing. Professor Li Shunwei from Peking Union Medical College Hospital stated that she was “highly suspected to be thallium poisoning” at the initial diagnosis on Zhu Ling, unfortunately it was replied by Zhu that she had ever get exposured to any thallium, and as a result thallium poisoning was ruled out from the causes list without any testing, Zhu was therefore diagnosed and treated for neuritis.
<p>In the following April of that year, Bei Zhicheng, a undergraduate of Peking University and Zhu Ling’s middle school classmate posted “SOS” emails with the descriptions of Zhu Ling’s condition on the internet , asking for help from experts home and abroad so as to identify the cause of his friend’s disease. In total, he received over 3000 emails and 60% received emails proposed that Zhu’s symptom could be “thallium poisoning”. Bei Zhicheng translated those emails and had them sent to the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, yet his suggestions not adopted. Zhu Ling’s parents turned for help to Mr. Chen Zhenyang from Beijing Occupational Disease Prevention and Cure Hospital and subsequent tests confirmed that thallium was found in Zhu’s urine, cerebrospinal fluid, blood, fingernail and hair. Zhu Ling was suffering from heavy thallium poisoning. Professor Chen produced the test report, illustrating that Zhu Ling’s symptom could be ranked as secondary thallium poisoning. The amount of thallium in her body was extraordinarily high in her body above the lethal level. Professor Chen suspected that Zhu was deliberately poisoned and he administered the antidote, Prussian blue in time to save her life. On Apr. 28th, the Peking Union Medical College Hospital began to use Prussian blue pills and the concentration of thallium ion in Zhu Ling’s blood started to reduce in the same day. Thallium in her body was almost eliminated in one month and those poisoning symptoms disappeared. However, Zhu Ling remains largely paralyzed in the nervous system, with eyesight and organism function loss with the continued thallium damages. Her intelligence, eyesight, organism and language malfunction returned worse than before, leaving her permanent and serious sequelae. Zhu permanently lost the ability to take care of herself as the damage of thallium poisoning was irreversible.
<p>All of the doctors attending the thallium test and remote diagnosis of Zhu Ling suspect deliberate poisoning. Doctors from St. Jude Children's Research Hospital also pointed out to correspondent that “it’s very likely to be deliberate poisoning, if Zhu Ling didn’t use thallium in her work (such as the production of optical lens)”.
<p>On Apr. 20th of 1995, Peking Union Medical College Hospital confirmed that Zhu Ling experienced a secondary poisoning. And on 27th , Zhu Ling’s parents reported the case to the police. Ten days later, on May. 7th, the Public Security Organs filed the case for investigation officially. In the latter half of 1995, the investigations were rolled out among Zhu Ling’s classmates, acquaintances and friends. Strangely enough, a burglary happened in Zhu’s campus dormitory and her toiletries were missing during the holiday of the Labor Day, the theft occurred after the confirmation of her thallium poisoning and prior to the case filed by the Public Security Organs. 
<p>The police investigated the relationship between Zhu Ling’s father and Sun Wei’s father in the summer and autumn of 1995 and at the same year the police informed the Zhu Ling’s family members that “the truth was within a stone’s throw”. In 1996, Li Mucheng, Director of the Tsinghua University Police Station informed Zhu Ling’s parents that the “target” was locked and “after approval from the higher level, truth would get unveiled. Yet in February of 1996, relevant leaders from the 14th Section of the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau stated that the case was pretty tricky and was still under investigation. In February of 1997, Professor Xue Fangyu from the School of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University informed Zhu Ling’s parents that the university would cooperate with the police to solve the case. And since then, no actual measures were witnessed.
<p>In order to push forward the investigation, Zhu Ling’s parents,in March of 1997, informed the police that Zhu Ling’s classmates would soon graduate and may soon go abroad; On Apr. 2nd, Sun Wei was arrested as the only criminal suspect of the case by the 14th Section of the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau. The police claimed that Sun Wei was “the only student who can get thallium”. Sun Wei was BAILED OUT AND WENT back home after 8 hours of interrogation. In June of 1997, Tsinghua University refused to award Sun Wei the Certificate of Graduation. In early July of 1997, three members of Sun Wei’s family visited the Public Security Bureau to get Sun Wei’s passport for going abroad but the application was not permitted. On July 8th of 1997, Sun Wei wrote a letter to the leaders of Tsinghua University’s Party Committee, appealing for the written and stamped notice of the determination to postpone the releasing of Sun Wei’s Certificate of Graduation. He had negotiated with the university for several times but the university insisted on providing no written notice. In September, Tsinghua University awarded Sun Wei the Certificate of Graduation but didn’t grant him the Bachelor Degree. Apart from those measures, the Tsinghua University stipulated after Sun Wei’s graduation that the university should provide no relevant materials for Sun Wei in his procedures to go abroad and that the university should provide no recommendation letter for finding jobs.
<p>In November of 1997, A letter from Zhu Mingxin, Zhu Ling’s mother with the help of a remote diagnosis website of UCLA about Zhu Ling’s thallium poisoning pointed out that the police had been suspecting that it was a girl, who was Zhu Ling’s roommate and classmate that could be the real criminal.The police also stated that there’s evidence showing the criminal suspect took advantage of the time difference that the thallium poisoning test report was not produced promptly to destroy the dorm items of Zhu Ling, which led to the shortage of less than 1% visible evidence. But the police indicated that they won’t give up and were confident enough to declare court the criminal suspect guilty in the open court. (From May 7th of 1995 to 2006, the case was not placed into court. The Beijing police didn’t declare that the case was solved and didn’t expose any related details and reasons to the public. But Li Shusen from the 14th Section of the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau, who was responsible for the investigation of  the case mentioned that “there are certain results about the matter in the investigation” and “the matter is quite sensitive” in a interview in 2006) 
<p>On August 25th of 1998, the Public Security Organs declared to close the case and terminate the compulsory measures against Sun Wei, as the case had “overrun the legal time limit”. It’s claimed that there’s no evidence to prove that Sun Wei was related to the poisoning of Zhu Ling. (The Public Security Organs didn’t informed Zhu Ling’s families that the case had been ended. Zhu Ling’s father stated that his appeals were always replied with the answer that the case was “under investigation”. It’s not until the application for the information disclosure in 2008 that he was informed that the case had been ended in 1998. On May 12th of 2008, Wu Chengzhi, Zhu Ling’s father submitted application for the investigation process and results on Zhu Ling’s acute thallium toxicosis case. And the application was accepted at that day. After 18 days, the municipal Public Security Organs released the “notice on nondisclosure by government” on the grounds as per“other circumstances without information disclosure in accordance with the laws, regulations and relevant provisions”.)
<p>Sun Wei had applied for going abroad but he was refused repeatedly. She changed her name into Sun Shiyan, her birthday from Aug. 20th of 1973 (registered in Tsinghua University previously) into Oct. 12th of 1973 and submitted false documents in order to apply for going abroad.
<p>At the end of 2005, an article * Only the Beauty Die Young: a Student Killed by Poison 10 Years Ago * was released in Skyline By-talk, a sub-forum of the famous BBS Skyoneline, and wide resonance were stirred. Sun Wei was forced to declare that “I am clear and innocent. I am also one of the victims”. But her declaration was faced with even more questionings, which pushed the Zhu Ling case to a higher level. On Apr. 16th of 2013, the appealing for thorough investigation on the Zhu Ling case sprang up again, as the similar Fudan poisoning case was closed. Sun Wei, the criminal suspect is placed under public opinions and wide disputes again. On May 8th, Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau replied through the official Microblog that the public should treat the case rationally, given that the evidence was lost and the prior investigation was not disturbed at all.
<p>As far as the author is concerned, I have the following questions about the case:
<p>1. Zhu Ling’s case has been suspended up to now. What indeed cause such situation?
<p>2. What evidence did the police have?
<p>3. IN Which stage WAS THE case stuck STAGNANT?
<p>4. Is it true that the police claimed “the truth was within a stone’s throw”? Who was the target that the police were referring to at that time?
<p>5. Why did the authority put off the inquiries of Zhu Ling’s families and their application for the information disclosure and avoided keeping them informed?
<p>6. What did the mysterious, so-called “other circumstances without information disclosure in accordance with the laws, regulations and relevant provisions” specifically referred to? 
<p>7. Was the case “disturbed” at that time improperly by the power, which was especially questioned by the public?
<p>8. In the prior statement, Li Shusen mentioned that “the matter is quite sensitive”. Was that out of political factors, considering the environment in China? 
<p>9. If Sun Wei was not the exact criminal, why did Sun Wei change her own ID information, apply several times for going abroad, make no explanations during the case period of 10 years and disappear after declaration in Skyline By-talk?
